**_Anyone who already knows Git, skip this. This is an imperfect quickstart and is by no means the way that Git would be used in a real workplace's environment. If you really want the complete world of pain and power, read the book: http://git-scm.com/book. Just to point out, github is very popular and git (or just version-control in general) is a useful tool to know._**

# Quick and dirty Git #

### Why do we use Git? ###

A tool may be useful, but too many add unnecessary complexity. Git is a necessary tool. Have you ever:   (_Shamelessly stolen from **[stackoverflow](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/1408450/why-should-i-use-version-control)**._)
  * Made a change to code, realised it was a mistake and wanted to go back?
  * Lost code or had a backup that was too old?
  * Had to maintain multiple versions of a product?
  * Wanted to see the difference between two (or more) versions of your code?
  * Wanted to prove that a particular change broke or fixed a piece of code?
  * Wanted to review the history of some code?
  * Wanted to submit a change to someone else's code?
  * Wanted to share your code, or let other people work on your code, on an ongoing basis?
  * Wanted to see how much work is being done (where, when and by whom)?
  * Wanted to experiment with a new feature without interfering with working code?
Git or any decent version-control-system solves (in varying degrees) each of these problems.

### How do we use Git? ###

EDIT 9/21/13: **_[Be sure to configure Git](http://git-scm.com/book/en/Getting-Started-First-Time-Git-Setup)_**

Remember how the installation guide said to use
```
git clone https://code.google.com/p/tntech-arc/
```
This command is simple. It grabs all the data from the given location and makes a local (on your hard drive) copy. Now there are these directories:
```
tntech-arc/
    asimov/
        hokoyu/
        network/
        obstacle/
        messages/
        etc....
```
Now that we have the source code, **I shall illustrate a typical day of working on a piece of code**. For this example, I will be working on something in obstacle avoidance:

The day of coding starts and I first of all check for updates made by others.
```
git diff master origin/master
```
Oh look! Someone has made changes to other files besides the one I am working on. For example, someone fixed a bug in the network module. Let's download the updated code:
```
git pull origin
```

I have just created a file with some code:  (hypothetically, don't bother searching our repository for this file)
```
tntech-arc/
    asimov/
        obstacle/
            avoidance.cpp
```
Git will ignore this file until added to the listings with
```
git add avoidance.cpp
```
This is repeated for every single file that I wish to be version-controlled which is all the source code but no compiled binaries generated by the source code.

Okay, I do some coding and search for that elusive missing semicolon for the rest of the day. Now the day is ended and I want to save any changes I've made.

I'll check the add/modify/change/whatever status of each file using
```
git status
```
If there is a file I forgot to add I do it now. Once git status meets my approval, then I'll save all the changes using
```
git commit -m "A description of what I did."
```
This creates a "checkpoint" ("save game" like in video games) in the version history which we can access at any point in the future. The only problem is that only your computer has this change. No one else can see any changes yet.

Since this project is relatively small with few people working on each part at a time it is somewhat safe to assume that no one has updated the code in the few hours since I've started coding. But in any case, git diff again to be sure. Now I run this:
```
git push origin
```
This function does a LOT. But the summary: Put the updated history (or changes made to files) onto the server repository while also resolving any file conflicts.

### Summary ###
The above "typical day" does not cover all the possible commands that might be needed. I know it is not a nice thing to say, but learn to use stackoverflow and google also how to search documentation such as _**[Git's manual page](https://www.kernel.org/pub/software/scm/git/docs/)**_. Such documentation is commonplace in the software world.
  * A "typical day" could be any span of time from a few minutes to a few weeks.
  * Be careful what you put on the repository. Version-control-systems by definition are not forgetful. Not to mention this is a public, open-source project.
  * Looks at the changes made to this project _**[here](https://code.google.com/p/tntech-arc/source/list)**_. Be sure to note the dropdown box titled "Branch". (Branches are a confusing topic for further down the road)

**_//Last modified September 21, 2013 by Daniel Oliver._**